Title: 2013 May 8, Wednesday
Date: 2013-05-08
Category: labnotebook
Tags: entry, protocol

## To Do ##

- Obtain Ga-0 seeds
- Streak out more _Pseudomonas syringae_ strains
    - HR+:
        - RMX24.b.1
        - ME.Cv.P.105
        - ME.16.b.1
        - LP620c
    - HR-:
        - LP856.3a
        - ME.3.35.02a
        - ME812.2b
- Visit the greenhouse
- Visit the stockroom
- Attend postdoc orientation
- Get Buysite access
- Look up _gyrA_ and _cts_ genotyping

***

## Notes ##

- Greenhouse
    - Submitted ID to get access, obtained key
    - Talia's flat of Ga-0 plants for practicing injections
    - Things to remember:
        - Email staff two days in advance to get flats filled with soil
        - Room for planting (check procedures for cleaning afterwards)
        - Bottom-watering & plastic domes useful for pathogen experiments
        - Room for injections/bulking seeds
        - Greenhouse on roof for large-scale experiments
        - Long-day, short-day, vernalization growth chambers
- Stored KB+nitro plates at 4&deg; C
- Reviewed protocols for infecting _Arabidopsis_ by injection (see below). 
- Attended postdoc orientation
- Inoculated NP29.1a, LP205a, ME.Cv.B50 in 5 mL KB 

***

## Syringe infiltration of _Arabidopsis thaliana_ ##

1. Inoculate single colony into 5 mL KB. Grow at 28&deg; C with shaking.
2. Back-dilute 500 &micro;L into 5 mL KB. Grow at 28&deg; C with shaking for
   3-4 h.
3. Spin down 500 &micro;L at 5000 rpm for 5 m. Resuspend in 1 mL 10 mM 
   MgSO<sub>4</sub>.
4. Measure OD<sub>600</sub>.
5. Dilute to 2.5 * 10<super>5</super> cells/mL in 10 mM MgSO<sub>4</sub>.
    - Total volume needed is ~ 1 mL/leaf or ~ 20 mL/16 leaves.
    - OD<sub>600</sub> 0.2 = 2.5 * 10<super>8</super> cells/mL, so dilute to
      final OD<sub>600</sub> 0.0002
6. Mark leaf to infect.
7. Fill syringe with inoculum. Make sure there are no air bubbles.
8. Infiltrate from bottom side of the leaf. Let air dry.
9. Place dome without holes over flat and tape down. Make sure plants are 
   bottom-watered.
10. Remove infected leaf with tweezers and dip in 70% ethanol for 10-20 s.
11. Take hole punch from each leaf. Let air dry and pat with paper towel.
12. Place discs in 10 mM MgSO<sub>4</sub>.
13. Grind discs with Genogrinder at 1750 rpm for 30 s. Vortex at maximum
    setting for 30 s. Spin down at 800 rpm for 1 m.
14. Make serial dilutions and plate.
