Title: 2013 May 23, Thursday
Date: 2013-05-23
Category: lab notebook
Tags: lab notebook: entry
Summary: To do list, notes

## To Do ##

- Streak out fluorescent labeled PNA29.1a and LP205a
- Revise Python script for semiautomated colony counting
- Get signature for use of confocal microscope
- Write a LSM to PNG converter?
- Streak out more _Pseudomonas syringae_ strains
    - HR+:
        - RMX24.b.1
        - ME.Cv.P.105
        - ME.16.b.1
        - LP620c
    - HR-:
        - LP856.3a
        - ME.3.35.02a
        - ME812.2b
- Look up _gyrB_ and _cts_ genotyping

***

## Notes ##

- Wrote a bash script to search lab notebook entries
- Got images from camera and added them to lab notebook

***

## GUI for colony counting ##

Specify a directory path as an argument in the command line. Possibly an option
to specify either a single file or a directory. 

That will open up a window containing thumbnails of all images in the directory.
Click on a thumbnail to start colony counting.

Window should permit resizing and have scrollbars for when size of image exceeds
size of screen.

Must have options for multiple counters and ability to switch between counters.
Radio buttons? Dropdown? How to specify number of counters? Either at the
command line or have it be dynamic in the GUI.

Clicking on colony will mark it on the image. Marked images will be saved under
a new name automatically after counting is finished. Click a button to save.

Output will be a text file with a file name and the number of colonies for each
counter type.
