Title: 2013 June 17, Monday
Date: 2013-06-17
Category: lab notebook
Tags: lab notebook: entry, lab notebook: brainstorming
Summary: To do list, notes

## To Do ##

### Administrivia ###

- Hand in signed form to confocal microscope facility

### ASAP ###

- For Malaysian manuscript:
    - Supplementary table with all growth data
    - Remake growth figures with 95% confidence intervals
    - Oxidative stress phenotypes from Warringer _et al._ 

### Preparation ###

- Pour KB+nitro and LB+genta plates
- biocloud install of:
    - `blast`
    - `knitr`
    - `vim-R` and dependencies

### Long-term ###

- Revise Python script for semiautomated colony counting
- Write a LSM to PNG converter?
- Consider transforming eGFP into _P. syringae_ strains? 
- Look up _gyrB_ and _cts_ genotyping

***

## Notes ##

- Worked on Warringer _et al._ data analysis *(add link!)*
- Attended NSF presentation on funding opportunities in biological sciences
  *(add notes)*

***

## Brainstorming ##

Interesting paper: [Innerebner _et al._, 2011](http://dx.doi.org/10.1128/AEM.00133-11)

Precolonization with _Sphingomonas_ leads to less susceptibility to disease when
subsequently infected with _Pseudomonas syringae_

[Bodenhausen _et al._, 2013](http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0056329)
reports high proportions of _Sphingomonas_ in the leaf (overrepresented compared
to roots, third-most common phylum)

Another abundant phylum is _Flavobacterium_, another possible commensal [Kolton
_et al._, 2012](http://dx.doi.org/10.1128/JB.01249-12)

Look at raw sequencing data to see if species can be distinguished? Are there
isolates available?

Pairwise species comparisons of pathogenic _Pseudomonas syringae_ and
_P. viridiflava_ with _Sphingomonas_ and _Flavobacterium_: coinoculations and
successive inoculations

Also, successive inoculations for HR- and HR+ _P. syringae_ strains?
