Title: Useful reading 
Date: 2016-07-31
Category: blog
Tags: 8th light, apprenticeship, linkspam 
Author: Hana Lee
Summary: A roundup of interesting links. 

Over the past two weeks, I've come across several useful articles, blog posts,
and cheatsheets worth revisiting, either because they provide good reference
information or talk about concepts that will take some time for me to fully
digest. So I've decided to do a (semiregular?) roundup of links so I can spare my 
browser the neverending tab spawn.

[The Transformation Priority
Premise](https://8thlight.com/blog/uncle-bob/2013/05/27/TheTransformationPriorityPremise.html):
My mentor sent me this blog post to read last week. It is an attempt to
systematize, in a way, how one chooses to implement code that makes a unit test
pass. What I find particularly intriguing is the idea that there could be
generalizable principles that underlie the TDD process. TDD itself to me seems
like a generalizable approach to software development, as Uncle Bob himself
suggests towards the end of this post:

>The sequence of tests, transformations, and refactorings may just be a formal
>proof of correctness.

(Beck also alludes to this possibility at the end of _Test-Driven Development by
Example_ when he mentions the behavior of complex systems. On my own end, I can
see several parallels to the process of biological evolution; maybe that can be 
a topic for a future blog post.) Anyway, maybe if you can systematize the
"transformations" during TDD, maybe you can also build software that can write
software. (I guess that is already being done, to a certain extent, with machine 
learning, but I don't think they incorporate TDD. I should read up on this
subject more; it's so satisfyingly recursive.)
 
[TDD Patterns: Humble Object](http://ieftimov.com/tdd-humble-object): I think I
stumbled across this link while reading Stack Overflow. I suspect it will become
especially useful when I start trying to build the actual I/O part of my current
project (building a command-line tic-tac-toe in Java). I also appreciate the API
example because I've been wondering how you do TDD on web development projects,
and this post illustrates that pretty well. 

[How to Write Unmaintainable
Code](https://github.com/Droogans/unmaintainable-code): Really hilarious but
also describes a number of bad habits that I would like to remember to avoid.

[Web Design in 4 Minutes](http://jgthms.com/web-design-in-4-minutes/): Not
directly related to anything I'm doing at work right now but I have two side
projects involving building web sites, and I'm pretty weak on the front-end part.

[How I Slack](http://randsinrepose.com/archives/how-i-slack/):
All the Slack keyboard shortcuts one could ever need.

[Vim Cheat Sheet](http://vim.rtorr.com/): I've been using `vim` for almost six
years now as my text editor of choice, but I definitely do _not_ use it to full 
capacity.

[Tmux Cheat Sheet](https://tmuxcheatsheet.com/): Recently switched from using
`screen` to `tmux`, so I'm still in the process of trying to memorize the
commands.
